NAME file analysis and plotting software
----------------------------------------
(c)2017 J. Duncan Law-Green, Kyubi Systems

pyNAMEplot provides a series of tools and functions to plot results of the Met Office dispersion model NAME. The package was designed for the data extraction and analysis work of Zoe Fleming, National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS). Code was originally written by J. Duncan Law-Green and edited by Teri Forey at the University of Leicester.

### INSTALL

To install pre-built packages from Anaconda.org

```angular2html
conda install -c teriforey pynameplot
```

Note: pre-built binaries are not available for all operating systems.


### DOWNLOAD AND SET  ENVIRONMENT

Dependencies are available on Anaconda. To download and create the virtual environment required to run pyNAMEplot:

```angular2html
git clone https://github.com/TeriForey/pyNAMEplot
cd pyNAMEplot/
conda env create -f environment.yaml
source activate pynameplot
```

TODO: Rewrite the rest of the README 

### SOFTWARE

There are three main pieces of software available for NAME processing and analysis:

* makemastergrid.py - given a list of ESRI shapefiles and an example NAME file, will 
  computer a 'master grid file' listing covering factors for each square in the input NAME grid.

* zonecsv.py - given a master grid file and a NAME file, or a directory containing NAME files, will 
  calculate summed particle concentrations by zone, outputting a CSV file, one row per timestamp in 
  the input name file(s).

* plotter.py - given a configuration file, will plot an input NAME file (or a sum of multiple NAME
  files) on a map.

### COMMAND-LINE HELP

Each software script has a simple help function which displays the options available on the command
line, accessible by appending '-h' or '--help' to the script name, e.g.

`./makemastergrid.py --help`

#### SHAPEFILE LIST

In order to build a master grid file, the first step is to compile an input list of the input ESRI
shapefiles used to denote the zones required. The shapefile list is a simple ASCII CSV file, with 
one row per ESRI zone, in the following format

`/data/name/Python/Final_PML_shapefiles_04_05_17_new/Africa.shp, Tomato`

The first element is the full path to the ESRI '.shp' shapefile, the second is the HTML colour 
desired for that zone on map plots.

A text file listing all .shp shapefiles in a given directory can be generated by the simple command:

`ls /data/name/Python/Final_PML_shapefiles_04_05_17_new/*.shp > PML_shapefiles.example`

#### MAKEMASTERGRID
```
usage: makemastergrid [-h] -n NAMEFILE -s SHAPELIST -o OUTFILE

Generate master grid file from ESRI zones.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help				show this help message and exit
  -n NAMEFILE, --namefile NAMEFILE  	Input NAME file to define grid shape
  -s SHAPELIST, --shapelist SHAPELIST   File containing list of input shapefiles
  -o OUTFILE, --outfile OUTFILE         Output master grid file name
										
```
#### ZONECSV
```
usage: zonecsv [-h] (-d INDIR | -n NAMEFILE) -g GRID -o OUTFILE
               [-w WEEK | -m MONTH | -y YEAR]

Sum NAME concentration files over ESRI zones.

optional arguments:
-h, --help				show this help message and exit
-d INDIR, --indir INDIR        		Input NAME file directory
-n NAMEFILE, --namefile NAMEFILE        Input NAME file to sum over
-g GRID, --grid GRID  			Input master grid file
-o OUTFILE, --outfile OUTFILE           Output CSV results file
-w WEEK, --week WEEK  			Select NAME files from ISO week number
-m MONTH, --month MONTH                 Select NAME files from Month number
-y YEAR, --year YEAR  			Select NAME files from Year

```
